import histories: Laminated Denim (#1)
kglw-dot-net/song-histories: laminated-denim/hypertension.md

According to liner notes, the song was performed by Ambrose (keyboards/percussion/vocals), Cavs (drums/percussion), Cook (guitar), Joey (guitar/bass/synthesizer) and Stu (vocals/guitar/bass/keys/percussion/flute). Before the song was even released it was being hyped up. In Cavs’ [drum seminar at Drumtek](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9O9b-U0nl4&t=2822s) in Northcote, he described it as a fifteen-minute “space rock odyssey” and mentioned that it was one of his all time favorite Gizzard songs. Before the album’s release, a countdown clock with the song was played during the band’s intermission on [2022-10-11](https://kglw.net/setlists/king-gizzard-the-lizard-wizard-october-11-2022-red-rocks-amphitheatre-morrison-co-usa.html). “Hypertension” was later released on October 12th 2022. Alongside the album release, the band uploaded the [official countdown clock](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDJ3nQAanMA) visualiser made by Jason Galea.

> <div style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rMrP6GVLyBc?si=NAKPe18_P6aqnZYg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe><div style="text-align: left;"> 

Author: ```suggestion
<div style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rMrP6GVLyBc?si=NAKPe18_P6aqnZYg" title="King Gizzard live debut of Hypertension" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```

> <div style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bnmHtfxdSvA?si=VRQUXjwyvEqvkA8n" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe><div style="text-align: left;"> 

Author: ```suggestion
<div style="text-align: center;"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bnmHtfxdSvA?si=VRQUXjwyvEqvkA8n" title="King Gizzard playing Hypertension live in Chicago 2023" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
```
